// notes on indigenous and white subject headigngs \\

indigenous terms searched:
indigenous
american indian
indian
native american

white terms searched:
white
caucasian (was not reliable because only 53 results and all mostly about the Caucasus region)


i am struck by the number of results returned when searching for white (724) as opposed to indigenous (120), and I realize that is because white is a much broader term that can be applied as a color or a descriptor for a species of tree or animal or a place name (including an Indigenous reservation). But the power to name is real, and this imbalance might mean something. But then Indian returned way more, lmost 2,000 so this may be a moot (or different)



I decided purposefully not to include reservations in the Indigenous subject heading list because then logically I would need to include every "white" related place subject heading as well for comparison.

I did not include Indigenous communities or related subject headings from outside the US.

The coverage of the library in terms of separate Indian tribes is extensive: a search for Indians returned 4,362 subject headings. I did not include these in the comparison as I thought I would then have to include the various ethnic groups from which the term "white" originates, but it is worth noting their extensive collection. Similarly a search for "Indians" returned 1,975 results, but I limited the selected subject headings to those that did not focus on a specific region.

Although the numbers of terms might be the same, the differences in types of terms is striking: for example there are heading for middle class whites, white parents, white teachers, white clergy, etc; while there are no such general descriptive headings for Indigenous subjects: these are based much more in ethnography than daily life. There is no middle class indigenous subject heading.

Also notably there were at least 4 different subject headings for white supremacy type movements in the white list, but nothing of the sort in the Indigenous list.